Private packages beta (#6675)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/build/packages.md

Where `name: 'dbt_utils'` specifies the subfolder of `dbt_packages` that's created for the package source code to be installed within.

## Private packages

### Native private packages <Lifecycle status='beta'/> 

dbt Cloud supports private packages from [supported](#prerequisites) Git repos leveraging an exisiting [configuration](/docs/cloud/git/git-configuration-in-dbt-cloud) in your environment. Previously, you had to configure a [token](#git-token-method) to retrieve packages from your private repos.  

#### Prerequisites

> dbt Cloud natively supports private packages for the following services:

Author: ```suggestion
To use native private packages, you must have one of the following Git providers configured in the **Integrations** section of your **Account settings**:
```

- [GitHub](/docs/cloud/git/connect-github)
- [Azure DevOps](/docs/cloud/git/connect-azure-devops)
- Support for GitLab is coming soon.

> To use this feature, you must have a supported Git provider configured in the **Integrations** section of your **Account settings**.

Author: ```suggestion
```

#### Configuration

Use the `private` block in your `packages.yml` or `dependencies.yml` to clone package repos using your existing dbt Cloud Git integration without having to provision an access token or create a dbt Cloud environment variable:

<File name="packages.yml">

```yaml
packages:
  - private: dbt-labs/awesome_repo
  - package: normal packages

	[...]
```

</File>

You can pin private packages similar to regular dbt packages:

```yaml
packages:
  - private: dbt-labs/awesome_repo

>     revision: branch name | tagged git release | a specific commit (full 40-character hash}

Author: ```suggestion
    revision: "0.9.5" # Pin to a tag, branch, or complete 40-character commit hash
```

  
```

If you are using multiple Git integrations, disambiguate by adding the provider key:

```yaml
packages:
  - private: dbt-labs/awesome_repo

>     provider: "github" | "azure" 

Author: ```suggestion
    provider: "github" # GitHub and Azure are currently supported. GitLab is coming soon.
```

Where `name: 'dbt_utils'` specifies the subfolder of `dbt_packages` that's created for the package source code to be installed within.

## Private packages

> 

Reviewer: since we're here, maybe we can have a intro sentence here since we usually dont like having an h2 followed by an h3. so something like:

```
Private packages enable you to clone and manage private repositories in your dbt project. The following sections explain how to configure private packages using these methods:

- [Native private packages](/docs/build/packages#native-private-packages) <Lifecycle status="beta"
- [SSH key method (command line only)](/docs/build/packages#ssh-key-method-command-line-only)
- [Git token method](/docs/build/packages#git-token-method)
```

Reviewer: that way we're showing users the options for private package configurations and linking to them, while also having an intro of what private packages are.

Author: I'm not sure if we'll be deprecating the others, so we may not want to call attention. I'll find out and address it in a [follow up issue](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/issues/6683)

### Native private packages <Lifecycle status='beta'/> 

dbt Cloud supports private packages from [supported](#prerequisites) Git repos leveraging an exisiting [configuration](/docs/cloud/git/git-configuration-in-dbt-cloud) in your environment. Previously, you had to configure a [token](#git-token-method) to retrieve packages from your private repos.  

#### Prerequisites

> Native support for private packages is supported on the following services:

Reviewer: active voice
```suggestion
The following providers natively support private packages:
```

Author: The providers don't support it in this scenario though. I'll change it to 
```suggestion
dbt Cloud natively supports private packages for the following services:
```

> Native support for private packages is supported on the following services:

Reviewer: for this whole 'prerequisites' section, might be helpful to organize it all in bullets and link to the account integrations page. like this:

```
#### Prerequisites

- The following providers natively support private packages:
  - [GitHub](https://docs-getdbt-com-git-private-packages-dbt-labs.vercel.app/docs/cloud/git/connect-github)
  - [Azure DevOps](https://docs-getdbt-com-git-private-packages-dbt-labs.vercel.app/docs/cloud/git/connect-azure-devops)
  - GitLab support is coming soon.

- You need a supported Git provider configured in the [**Integrations** section](/docs/cloud/account-integrations) of your **Account settings** to use this feature.
```

> - [Github](/docs/cloud/git/connect-github)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [GitHub](/docs/cloud/git/connect-github)
```

Author: I ALWAYS DO THIS!

- [Azure DevOps](/docs/cloud/git/connect-azure-devops)

> 

Reviewer: non blocker but think it reads a bit more nicely as a bullet.
```suggestion
- Support for GitLab is coming soon.
```

> Support for Gitlab is coming soon. 

Reviewer: if you accept above, remember to remove this

> Support for Gitlab is coming soon. 

Author: ```suggestion
```

To use this feature, you must have a supported Git provider configured in the **Integrations** section of your **Account settings**.

#### Configuration

> Use the `private` block in your `packages.yml` or `dependencies.yml` to clone package repos using your existing dbt Cloud Git integration without having to provision an access token or create a dbt Cloud environment variable:

Reviewer: maybe the sme will have more insight but i'd suggest using key instead of block. "private block" might confuse readers because "block" typically refers to multi-line (at least for me it did)
```suggestion
Use the `private` key in your `packages.yml` or `dependencies.yml` to clone package repos using your existing dbt Cloud Git integration without having to provision an access token or create a dbt Cloud environment variable:
```

Author: We use `blocks` elsewhere in the docs for this sort of thing, but it might be a good convo to have in a meeting

<File name="packages.yml">

> ```yaml

Reviewer: i think the yml indentation isn't right here. it should be something like:

```yaml
packages:
  - private: dbt-labs/awesome_repo
  - package: normal packages
 [...]
```

Reviewer: i think the other code snippets need to be updated so the yaml is indented correctly, otherwise users are going to get this error:

![Screenshot 2024-12-17 at 13 15 25](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b1a463ef-4f11-4c05-b6d5-4b797f72817c)

Author: Yikes! Sorry about that. I'll fix

packages:
	- private: dbt-labs/awesome_repo
		
	- package: normal packages
	
	[...]
```

</File>

> You can pin private packages similar to regular dbt packages:

Reviewer: i wasn't sure if the `revision` key was an array or what. what about adding something like this to help users (if that's right?):

> You can pin private packages similar to regular dbt packages using the `revision` key. It specifies the version of the private package to retrieve. You can use a branch name, a tagged Git release, or a full 40-character commit hash:

Reviewer: also does the key accept just one value?

Author: Yeah, it's pinned like regular packages. Updated the example

```yaml
packages:

> 	- private: dbt-labs/awesome_repo

Reviewer: same as above [comment](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/6675/files#r1888503110) about yaml indent

	  revision: branch name | tagged git release | a specific commit (full 40-character hash}
  
```

> If you are using multiple Git integrations, disambiguate by adding the provider key:

Reviewer: i also incorrectly (or correctly?) thought this was an array or forgot that i would need to use the `private` key for the other repo/provider. maybe the example can explicitly show how users should configure this so they dont run into issues assuming. so something like this:

> If you're using multiple Git integrations (like GitHub or Azure), use the `provider` key to specify which  provider to retrieve the private package from. The `provider` key accepts a single string value such as  `github` or `azure`. 

> ```yaml
>packages:
>   - private: dbt-labs/awesome_repo
>     provider: "github"
>
>   - private: dbt-labs/another_repo
>     provider: "azure"
```

Reviewer: also are single quotes or no quotes allowed too? e.g. provider: 'azure' or provider: azure?

Author: I'll ask and cover it the follow up

```yaml

> packages:

Reviewer: same as above [comment](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/6675/files#r1888503110) about yaml indent

Where `name: 'dbt_utils'` specifies the subfolder of `dbt_packages` that's created for the package source code to be installed within.

## Private packages

### Native private packages <Lifecycle status='beta'/> 

dbt Cloud supports private packages from [supported](#prerequisites) Git repos leveraging an exisiting [configuration](/docs/cloud/git/git-configuration-in-dbt-cloud) in your environment. Previously, you had to configure a [token](#git-token-method) to retrieve packages from your private repos.  

#### Prerequisites

Native support for private packages is supported on the following services:
- [Github](/docs/cloud/git/connect-github)
- [Azure DevOps](/docs/cloud/git/connect-azure-devops)

Support for Gitlab is coming soon. 

To use this feature, you must have a supported Git provider configured in the **Integrations** section of your **Account settings**.

#### Configuration

Use the `private` block in your `packages.yml` or `dependencies.yml` to clone package repos using your existing dbt Cloud Git integration without having to provision an access token or create a dbt Cloud environment variable:

<File name="packages.yml">

```yaml

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Private packages

### Native private packages <Lifecycle status='beta'/> 

dbt Cloud supports private packages from [supported](#prerequisites) Git repos leveraging an exisiting [configuration](/docs/cloud/git/git-configuration-in-dbt-cloud) in your environment. Previously, you had to configure a [token](#git-token-method) to retrieve packages from your private repos.  

#### Prerequisites

Native support for private packages is supported on the following services:
- [Github](/docs/cloud/git/connect-github)
- [Azure DevOps](/docs/cloud/git/connect-azure-devops)

Support for Gitlab is coming soon. 

To use this feature, you must have a supported Git provider configured in the **Integrations** section of your **Account settings**.

#### Configuration

Use the `private` block in your `packages.yml` or `dependencies.yml` to clone package repos using your existing dbt Cloud Git integration without having to provision an access token or create a dbt Cloud environment variable:

<File name="packages.yml">

```yaml

packages:
	- private: dbt-labs/awesome_repo
		
	- package: normal packages
	
	[...]
```

</File>

You can pin private packages similar to regular dbt packages:

```yaml

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Private packages

### Native private packages <Lifecycle status='beta'/> 

dbt Cloud supports private packages from [supported](#prerequisites) Git repos leveraging an exisiting [configuration](/docs/cloud/git/git-configuration-in-dbt-cloud) in your environment. Previously, you had to configure a [token](#git-token-method) to retrieve packages from your private repos.  

#### Prerequisites

Native support for private packages is supported on the following services:
- [Github](/docs/cloud/git/connect-github)
- [Azure DevOps](/docs/cloud/git/connect-azure-devops)

Support for Gitlab is coming soon. 

To use this feature, you must have a supported Git provider configured in the **Integrations** section of your **Account settings**.

#### Configuration

Use the `private` block in your `packages.yml` or `dependencies.yml` to clone package repos using your existing dbt Cloud Git integration without having to provision an access token or create a dbt Cloud environment variable:

<File name="packages.yml">

```yaml

packages:
	- private: dbt-labs/awesome_repo
		
	- package: normal packages
	
	[...]

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Where `name: 'dbt_utils'` specifies the subfolder of `dbt_packages` that's created for the package source code to be installed within.

## Private packages

### Native private packages <Lifecycle status='beta'/> 

dbt Cloud supports private packages from [supported](#prerequisites) Git repos leveraging an exisiting [configuration](/docs/cloud/git/git-configuration-in-dbt-cloud) in your environment. Previously, you had to configure a [token](#git-token-method) to retrieve packages from your private repos.  

#### Prerequisites

Native support for private packages is supported on the following services:
- [Github](/docs/cloud/git/connect-github)
- [Azure DevOps](/docs/cloud/git/connect-azure-devops)

Support for Gitlab is coming soon. 

> You must have the Git service configured in the **Integrations** section of your **Account settings** to use this feature.

Author: ```suggestion
To use this feature, you must have a supported Git provider configured in the **Integrations** section of your **Account settings**.
```

#### Configuration

Use the `private` block in your `packages.yml` or `dependencies.yml` to clone package repos using your existing dbt Cloud Git integration without having to provision an access token or create a dbt Cloud environment variable:

<File name="packages.yml">

```yaml

packages:
	- private: dbt-labs/awesome_repo
		
	- package: normal packages
	
	[...]

```

</File>

You can pin private packages similar to regular dbt packages:

```yaml

packages:
	- private: dbt-labs/awesome_repo
	  revision: branch name | tagged git release | a specific commit (full 40-character hash}
  
```

If you are using multiple Git integrations, disambiguate by adding the provider key:

```yaml

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

packages:
	- private: dbt-labs/awesome_repo
	  provider: "github" | "azure" 

```

With this method, you can retrieve private packages from an integrated Git provider without any additional steps to connect. 

> ### SSH Key Method (Command Line only)

Author: ```suggestion
### SSH key method (command line only)
```

If you're using dbt Cloud, the SSH key method will not work, but you can use the [HTTPS Git Token Method](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/build/packages#git-token-method).

### Git token method

:::note

> dbt Cloud has [native support](#native-private-packages) for Git hosted private packages for Github and Azure DevOps (GitLab coming soon). If you are using a supported [integrated Git environment](/docs/cloud/git/git-configuration-in-dbt-cloud), you no longer need to configure Git tokens to retrieve private packages. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
dbt Cloud has [native support](#native-private-packages) for Git hosted private packages with GitHub and Azure DevOps (GitLab coming soon). If you are using a supported [integrated Git environment](/docs/cloud/git/git-configuration-in-dbt-cloud), you no longer need to configure Git tokens to retrieve private packages. 
```
